# Self_Assessment

## Self-Assessment
### My Roles/Contributions to the Project
When we first started the project, my group had discussed potentially analyzing soccer data for world cup predictions. However, as not all of us (me being one of them) is not well acquainted with soccer and what the stats mean, I suggested that we look for a dataset for a disease prediction. I found a dataset on Kaggle for diabetes prediction which was originally drawn from a much larger dataset on the CDC website. My contribution was finding this dataset and the idea, my teammates had the idea to take the newest available year (2021) and analyze it in a similar manner with some expansion on the features selected.

In our first meeting, we determined how to divvy up the main aspects of the project, where my teammates took on the ETL and visualization work, and I took on the machine learning. I found it challenging to determine how to approach the code at first. Discussions with the instructor helped pinppoint Logistic Regression as a good choice due to our question being a classification one on whether or not someone can be predicted to have diabetes. Through further reading I decided to also run a neural network algorithm just to see if it made any difference, of which the difference was insignificant. 

Aside from the main aspects of the project, I also took on the role of hosting our out-of-class meetings as I have access to Teams and it allows us to meet for as long as we need. I wrote the background information for the project on the ReadMe, and started the presentation on Google Slides - which then was equally worked on by team members as we prepared for the final presentation.

### My Contributions to my Teammates Roles
My teammates took on the roles of ETL and visualizations. For the ETL process, I helped in group discussion to decide which additional features we wanted to add to our analysis, and then helped to check the features to ensure all was well with them. Visualizations we all helped contribute ideas and trouble-shooting during class times. The team member in charge spent many hours on her own making them, and then we would spend our meetings going over where we are at with the story we're trying to tell. Originally it had been my idea to include location of survey respondents with the visualizations, but over time it became clear that doing so was causing the visualizations to be messy and the story muddled. So ultimately I suggested we remove location differential as what I thought could be a cool idea simply was not a useful suggestion on my end when it came to trying to use it. The visualization my team member did use state data for was a map of the US to show the population density of survey respondents across the states. Overall, I would say much of our project was quite collaborative with a lot of our work being done during both class and out-of-class meetings. 

## Project and Team Summary
### Project Summary

Communication protocols utilized during the team project consisted primarily of conversations held during class and out-of-class meetings where we broke down who was responsible for what. We additionally used Slack and email as additional means of communication. This was a very all-hands-on-deck experience, with us pulling up the rubric and frequently checking in with the rubric to see what we had finished and still had left to do. In the future, a project management plan would be a suggested method. We did start one, but ultimately did not use it for this project. I would say because of how well we worked to complete tasks while meeting and checking in to ensure we're making timely progress checking off the necessary tasks, we functioned quite well without using a project management plan in this instance. However, this may be considered to be a scenario that was lucky to work out rather than to be used as a template.

The biggest team strength we had was our communication and willingness to meet for hours at a time when necessary. We also didn't waste much time picking our dataset, something that certainly helped keep us moving at a good speed. If I was to suggest something to a new cohort, it would be to spend the first class on the project coming up with a project management plan to determine who is responsible for what. Then, if time, determine which dataset to use and what the top 3 questions you have regarding the data for telling the story - if not in that first class, meet up/message between the Tuesday/Thursday classes to have it selected before the second class meeting. To help place students in the right headspace, I would suggest building a scenario to have students think like this is their first project at their first job in the field with hard deadlines at each point of the project - not just the soft deadlines of deliverables and the final presentation.

Our project focused on developing a prediction algorithm to identify key diabetes indicators. This is by us identifying health/lifestyle factors within our dataset to use as features against whether or not an individual has diabetes. The algorithms we used in our analysis were Logistic Regression and Neural Networking. Both returned an accuracy of ~73%. Though this isn't quite as high as we would like to see, the reality that we recognize is that our analysis cannot take into account an individual's genetic ancestry, environment, and other factors not found within our features that are known to correlate with the occurance of diabetes. 

A future analysis would benefit from looking at the features, potentially splitting the dataset into two tables - one to focus on health features (e.g. hypertension, cholesterol levels, BMI, etc...), and the other to focus on lifestyle features (e.g. diet, exercise, annual physicals, etc...). There are many ways to construct this, potentially it may be found that pooling them all together may actually still be the better option. Because the dataset is enormous, with over 2000 columns, many different sorts of analyses can be run on the data outside of predicting diabetes. One such example can be to predict which health/lifestyle factors are most important for an individual to focus upon based upon their individual circumstances. 
